So why does Angular not pick up the change?
It's important to realize that arrays, like objects in Javascript are reference types and the implications
this has can be found in an article in video you find attached to this lecture here.
Essentially it means that changes to an array or an object are not that easy to pick up for Angular
because we don't change the value itself but only some value somewhere stored in memory in very simple
words,
again check this attached resource for more details.
Now this means that Angular doesn't pick up when we change this.
Now in our persons component, we are initializing our person list with a pointer at persons
but again when we change persons, this is not picked up automatically.
Now we can set up a mechanism where we push changes to places interested in the update, so push changes
to components for example and to do that,
I will actually turn persons here into a private property so that I can only use it inside of the service
and I will add a new property here which I'll name personsChanged and the name is up to you.
However this will now be equal to a default value which I also need to import
but now not from Angular but a core library that is used heavily by Angular and that is the rxjs
library. rxjs is all about observables
and if you want to learn more about observables, you find a helpful resource is attached to this lecture.
There we can import a so-called subject and we initialize personsChanged to be equal to a new subject.
Now a subject is very similar to the event emitter we used earlier and actually Angular's event emitter
kind of builds up on this,
this is also a generic type and we can use it to manage and emit data.
Now here my subject will be a string array or will hold a string array data and that's important,
it will also manage the data, it will hold my full list of persons so to say.
Now with this subject set up here, what I do is I go to for example add persons and whenever I add a person,
I'll use the personsChanged subject and call next here to pass my updated persons,
I'll do exactly the same and copy that when I remove the person.
So now I'm basically emitting events
through this personsChanged subject and you can define as many subjects as you want which contain my updated
list of persons.
We can now subscribe to this event emitter so to say in other places of our app and I'll do this in
my persons component, there
when I initialize this, I still want to get access to persons and therefore actually I will turn this
back to a public which is the default type of property because I need to get this one-time access here
but I will also set up a listener to my prs service personsChanged subject by calling subscribe.
So we have next when we want to send a new value and we use subscribe when we want to listen to new
values and there I will get the data which was emitted which we know will be a list of persons
and then here this arrow function will execute whenever a new value is emitted.
So here we get the persons then and I can then set this person list equal to persons.
What this ensures is that now when I click on Manuel, you will see a life update because we now have
this active push mechanism where we push the update to interested parts in the application.
Now one important note, when using your own subjects, you need to unsubscribe when the component gets
destroyed to prevent memory leaks where you have more and more unused subscriptions piling up and for that,
I'll use another lifecycle hook, the onDestroy hook where I implement onDestroy
which is imported from @angular/core
and then we add ngOnDestroy down there and in there, I want to clear my subscription. For that
I first of all need to store it in a property of this class, so I'll add my private property
person list subs, you can name it however you want and this will be of type subscription which is a type
you have to import from rxjs.
This is actually what subscribe will return, so we can store it here and set this person list sub equal
to the result of subscribe here.
Now the subscription is stored and in ngOnDestroy,
I can now call this person list sub unsubscribe and now this prevents memory leaks.
This is something you should do when working with subjects and your own event emitters therefore. It's
not required for the Angular event emitter we used earlier
though, there Angular will do all the cleanup.